---
layout: post
title:  "Reboot, Refresh, Refocus"
date:   2016-12-24 17:07:28 +0000
---


I assumed that building a website from scratch and deploying it on a server would be easy with all of my newly acquired skills after graduating recently. Using Ruby on Rails I built the site from the ground up, using bower components to tie in bootstrap and jQuery, testing every component over and over on my local machine. Following DigitalOcean's OneClick Ruby on Rails setup, I deployed my site successfully, but the CSS was all off, and many of the jQuery fuctions we'rent working! I troubleshot the process for a long time with a lot of frustration and a lot of dead ends. Realizing that the problem probably lay somewhere within the environmental factors (differing versions or something along those lines), I scrapped the OneClick app and followed a tutorial on deploying Rails through DigitalOcean using Ubuntu. Then after hitting error after error after error, I tried the tutorial again from the beginning and after ending up in the same place I tried another tutorial... also multiple times, always solving one problem but getting stuck on another. Eventually I came up against a wall that I could not pass, tried everything I could find documentation on, and remained stuck. After a night away from the project it occured to me that maybe I should rebuild the app, simplifying and removing anything that wasn't crucial to the code. I did this, kept it lean and simplified how I was bringing assets into the workflow, tried the OneClick setup again and voila... it worked!!! This taught me that while going through all of the troubleshooting and learning more about my workflow and environment is a valuable skill and one I'm happy to go through as a learning experience, sometimes starting with the simplest solution can help avoid a lot of frustration and time in the end. It's worth giving it a shot at least. I now feel great about having my site up and understand the entire process behind how that works a lot better and am grateful for having had the opportunity to learn it for myself. 
